# 61C Spring 2022 Project 2: CS61Classify

Spec: [https://cs61c.org/sp22/projects/proj2/](https://cs61c.org/sp22/projects/proj2/)

TODO:

Each task took us about two hours. The tasks of Part A that were the most difficult were matmul (because it was complex) and relu (because we had to figure out how to use RISC-V properly). For Part B, we found that the first two tasks were fairly intuitive (write_matrix was similar to read_matrix), but classify was really difficult because of how much we needed to connect everything we had done before. In general, using RISC-V was difficult because of how confusing not being to able to use real variable names was. However, we added lots of comments to help us through.  

When we were coding up relu.s, we saw that on Piazza it was recommended we use the abs function to implement, but we found that this made the code a lot longer and gave us bugs. However, it taught us to save ra because that bug really messed us up. Additionally, figuring out caller-callee convention was a big part of our bugs, but again, this taught us not to make that mistake again. Also, having to deal with Python syntax for the tests.py was annoying because it would get mad about indentation & spaces (tab vs. 4 spaces). Finally, we failed the test_chain because we forgot to return the value because it wasn't stated explicitly in the scaffolding we were following. Next time, it would be very helpful to have that since otherwise, the scaffolding always led us in the right direction. Another small debugging bug was that when we tried to do "vdb test_classify_not_enough_args.s" in Venus, it made us add all the other arguments we needed to before to help with actually debugging (../tests/classify-1/m0.bin ../tests/classify-1/m1.bin ../tests/classify-1/input.bin ../tests/classify-1/output.bin). It was a bit frustrating to have to debug the debugging process. 

The hardest part of the project was definitely classify.s because it was a fairly complex program that involved a lot of attention to the caller-callee convention as well as keeping track of a lot of different variables/pointers, all of which aren't labeled as regular variable names but rather a bunch of registers (x0 - x31). It would've been helpful/easier to return things like the num rows/cols in read_matrix as an array in a1 because figuring out storing and loading all that off the stack was a pain. The easiest part of the project was argmax.s and dot.s. Both felt like fairly simple processes that allowed us to get more comfortable with RISC-V syntax. The most fun part of the project was classify.s (even though we found it was the hardest) because it showed us that we could write a more complex RISC-V program and showed us the power of all the helper functions we had written before. It was a big finale where everyone was involved. The least fun part of the project was relu.s just because we ran into so many frustrating bugs since we were still grappling with RISC-V syntax/caller-callee/tracking registers/etc. 
